---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/tytheradt/"}
---

In the year 541, Tytheradt started his life in obscurity. He was born to a married couple on [[Exellian Isles, Mystics/The Exellian Isles\|The Exellian Isles]], and was one of two twins. His mother was called Ca'thrys - which translated roughly to "Unrelenting Care." His father was called Thyurn - which translated roughly to "Immense Nurture." When they were born, their parents scried their blood, and found that they were destined for greatness. They knew the collectivist culture of  [[Exellian Isles, Mystics/The Exellian Mystics\|The Exellian Mystics]] would not allow them to raise their own children; thinking they'd be corrupted, the parents hid the children from the rest of the tribe.

Eventually,  [[Exellian Isles, Mystics/The Exellian Mystics\|The Exellian Mystics]] discovered the children. The cultists raided the house, and once inside, inspected the children. They speculated the blood, while great, was not pooled equally. One child was destined for greatness, with a wealth of magic in blood. The other was destined for corruption, with an abnormal absense of magic in blood. They deemed the child who would become Tytheradt the "Blessed Keviah," and stole him away to become the Keviah. The other they left for dead. Ca'thrys and Thyurn would be returning to their beachside hut, tucked away in foliage, to find a group of [[Exellian Isles, Mystics/Oraculaneum (Rank)\|Oraculaneum (Rank)]] and their [[Exellian Isles, Mystics/Reinhath (Rank)\|Reinhath (Rank)]] raiding the house. The parents would strike out with their magic, Ca'thrys creating 9 feet tall daggers of ice that erupt from the sand into the Reinhaths. Thyurn would move the sands into massive pillars to block the Oraculaneum's path. This would not be enough, as they would eventually fall.

Oraculaneum Ghros, the one who orcestrated the raid, would see the passion present in the family line, and would put the lovers into a Grave. Their souls would be bound in memoriam in a gyroscope-type item. Ghros would raze their house, and place the Tomb here. He would then enroll the other twin - into the typical academic system of the Exellian Isles. A mentor and apprentice system, this child would be the apprentice of Ghros' own son - Reinhath Xel - and his history would be erased.

The Blessed Keviah would be taken to the Wytheriul Focus, a massive colusseum with the secure fortress in the middle, which houses the focus itself. The Keviah would be suspended in the focus, and would see all timelines while communing with the God Wytherius. The Oraculaneums would guide the Keviah on their plans, and the Keviah would relay how best to procede. The Blessed Keviah earned his name through the belief that he would guide the Mystics to toppling the Regency Crown and the Zenithene Empire.

This would work perfectly, and the Mystics would perform more movements than ever over the 30 years. That was until an uprising occured. Led by someone who branded themselves "The Accursed Keviah" begun an uprising saying the Keviah and Oraculaneums should be abolished, and all should be provided a seat in the Wytheriul Focus. He was the Blessed Keviah's twin, who had been told his history and had been influenced to seeing the wrongs of the Mystics by Reinhath Xel during his years of training. He had about 40% of the Exellian population behind him, and this revolution would be very powerful, ripping through whatever they stormed, trying to capture the Keviah. This would be until 573 Postmortem, when the Accursed Keviah was captured. The Oraculaneums would bargain with the Accursed Keviah's inner circle, and would make changes to appease the revolutionaires, such as destroying the walls of the Inner Fortress, so that during communions with the Keviah, all could sit in and listend and debate the plans. 

The Oraculaneums would keep the Accursed Keviah in custody for 39 days and 39 nights. He would be kept in complete sensory deprivation, in an anti-magic field. After these 39 days, the Oraculaneums would secretly move the Keviah to a ritual built in an alcove near the Focus. As he was transported, the put him into the middle of a ritual circle, meant to discorpate him and bound him to the fabric of the world to suffer for eternity powerless. In doing this, they moved him out of the anti-magic field, and gave him just enough time to free the Blessed Keviah from the magic of the  [[Exellian Isles, Mystics/Wytherium Engine\|Wytherium Engine]], and then would be banished. 

The Blessed Keviah would awake, knowing what happened. He would flee to the Empire on a raft, careful not to use magic so the Oraculaneums could not track him. Once reaching the shore, he would continue taking merchant convoys and such north. Over this time, he would study the Collective Unconscious through complete immersion in it. He would also take the name Tytheradt, which would translate to Unrelenting Determination. In the year 713 Postmortem, he would arrive in The Apex - the capital of the Zenithene Empire. Following a rumor, he would sneak into the Emperor's Tower, and steal the Zenithe Demarcation - claiming it came to him in the night, and declaring his divine rule. He was told to prove it, and plunged into The Wound. All according to plan.

Here, he communed with [[The Quintessential Pair/The Progenitor\|The Progenitor]].  He would rend flesh from [[The Quintessential Pair/The Progenitor\|The Progenitor]], and declare his brother be restored. [[The Quintessential Pair/The Progenitor\|The Progenitor]] would begin reformation, but dispel him through use of its power. Tytheradt would try to counter it, and would remain in the Wound for a short time. Beholding the power, he forgoes his mortality in the face of eternity, starting his journey to Lichdom.

He would rule for 10 years as the Emperor, who would lead the Zenithene Empire into its Golden Age. In 723, he made an announcement overnight that the Demarcation disappeared from him mysteriously, and would leave the Empire to whoever now had it. Before his disappearance, he would steal a not-insignificant amount from the reserves. 

Shortly after, he would reemerge and purchase the son of the Atilan crown, who had been enslaved. This serpent would go on to be his [[Atilus/Cicero\|Retainer]]

Staying alive and continuing his journey to perfecting Lichdom, he would be laying low until the 840s. Through immersion in the unconscious, he would find that his brother was nearly fully remade in the untouched continent of Reese. Tytheradt would name Reese during the following campaign, dubbing it the word for crown in the Exellian language. His plans aligned, and Reese would be the crown cementing his power. Using what remained from his reserve heist, he would start the FMC, and would venture into Reese alone to find what he was told would change the world - Radium.

During this venture, he would roam through what would be New King's Bounty to what would become Site XI. Around here, he would find a stone archway infused with Radium. He would disassemble it, and take the Radium. During the journey though, he suffers massively. The fauna has not been pushed back yet, and thus he took a lot of damage, and now has become afflicted with Reeserot. His body now deteriorated, he hired [[FMC Operatives/Bor, Hand of the FMC\| a centaur by the name of Bor]] to be the frontman and the hand of the FMC's will.

Knowing he didn't find enough Radium to do anything powerful, he uses his magic to open a portal to Exellia. Here, he comes across a gyroscope-esque relic sitting on a podium on a beachside, and steals it. He returns to Reese, and creates an airship capable of moving at record speeds using the magic of the relic. During his trip to Exellia, the standing Keviah would detect Tytheradt, and the Mystics would rally on trying to prevent their Blessed Keviah who went rogue from growing too powerful. 

From the spoils, he conspires with the two others involved in the uppermost FMC at Site XI. These plans would result in the Thon'sahd Ball.

After creating this project, he had enough invenstors. He would channel funds into getting colonizers to flood Reese, and fuel him. He would go to Liothrae, and bind its magics to prevent the Mystics from using it against him, and using it to give his brother a gift. This gift was a piece of Living Metal from another plane, which became Longclaw, and then his spear after his brother purged Tytheradt's corruption.

Afterwards, Tytheradt would use a makeshift [[Exellian Isles, Mystics/Wytherium Engine\|Wytherium Engine]] he uses as a vessel for his curse. He has placed a curse on Reese, in which that everything that dies on Reese has its power absorbed.

Currently, he rule Reese as its law, commanding the actions of its forces while masquerading as the "Board of Directors." He typically only casts using the makeshift [[Exellian Isles, Mystics/Wytherium Engine\|Wytherium Engine]], so that the Mystics cannot find him. He sometimes roams the lands as a cloaked figure called "The Poet." The Poet introduces himself as The Poet, The 4th Successor, The Paragon Expatriate, and other countless titles lost to time. He claims to be a psychic, but subtly scries peoples blood to describe their past, and predicts their future.

Tytheradt's proficiency in scrying has been a staple of his power, but has been unable to use it against the party due to [[PCs/Keviah\|Keviah]]'s presence.

He keeps his train car going as an scapegoat for Thyra Wesson travelling.  

